# Homework Week3


## Todo

1. Ensure Rahul is added as a collaborator to your Github repo
2. In a new directory `w3`, using the test engine from week1, address the following problems. Write code and unit tests.
   Collect out from your system that shows things load and run. Submit a pointer to that `w3` directory.

Note that the following offers a full implementation of
everything you need to do... in another language (Lua).
Your job is to use the Lua code as inspiration
to build your Python.

Fear not the Lua. Its a pretty simple language. Very
Python-like. But it has no classes so it has certain
kuldges.

We'll talk to it in class.

## Three Incremental Sampling Methods

An incremental sampling methods runs over the data once, updating its internal measures as it goes.

A _reservoir sampler_ keeps a fixed number of items (and if it sees more, it deletes existing ones at random).

A _Gaussian sampler_ incrementally updated means and standard deviations.

A _entropy sampler_ incrementally updates the ratios at which various symbols are used.

The first two are for numbers and the last is for symbols.

FYI: my implementation of the second uses the first as a sub-routine.

The directory
[https://github.com/timm/lean/blob/master/tests/](https://github.com/timm/lean/blob/master/tests/)
contains unit tests for  in `sample.lua`, `num.lua`, `sym.lua`.
which are
(respectively)
a _reservoir sampler_ ;
a _Gaussian sampler_; and a
_entropy sampler_.


Port the unit tests to my test engine method `O.k`. Use those tests to check your Python versions of
`sample.lua`, `num.lua`, `sym.lua` in
[https://github.com/timm/lean/blob/master/src/](https://github.com/timm/lean/blob/master/src/).
the directory 
